---
date: 2022-02-20 14:00:00-06:00
dateRange: Feb 20
dates: 2:00 pm on feb 20 2022
draft: false
expiryDate: 2022-02-21
mpaaRating: Viewer Discretion Advised
oneSheet: /img/TheMoorsPavanePoster.jpg
performanceList:
  performance:
  - date: 2022-02-20 14:00:00-06:00
    format: 2D
    note: false
runningTime: 60
shortTitle: The Moor's Pavane
showType: Live Performance
studioInfo:
  studio: Not Specified
  studioFee: 0
  studioPercentage: 0
title: The Moor's Pavane
---

**University of Iowa's Arts Share** presents **Moor's Pavane**. Donations will be accepted for this **free** performance. Viewer discretion is advised.

Although _MOOR’S PAVANE_ is subtitled “Variations on the theme of Othello”, this dance is not intended as a choreographic version of Shakespeare’s play. In the form of a pavane and other dances of the high Renaissance, the legend is told of the hapless Moor, his wrongfully suspected wife, the Moor’s treacherous friend and his wife. The four characters portray the tragedy of Everyman, and the ballet is, therefore, timeless in its implications. This work has been cited by critics the world over as José Limón’s “masterpiece.”

Graduate students Michael Landez and Juliet Remmers collaborated to curate this reconstruction of José Limón’s “The Moor’s Pavane,” as part of their culminating thesis research as dance MFA Candidates at the University of Iowa. The work is being approached as an inquisition to (re)presentation of historic embodiments of masculinity and femininity. With a new approach to reconstruction, former Limón dancer Kurt Douglas provided the ideal research environment to investigate contemporary embodiments of historic choreography. Together, Remmers and Landez hope this reconstruction brings forward a critical discussion about how bodies in the present day reinterpret historic conceptions of identity across gender, race, ethnicity, and sexuality.

Portions of this work include artistic representation of scenes of violence against women, as portrayed in William Shakespeare’s Othello. This content may be triggering to some viewers. Viewer discretion is advised. This work will be performed without masks.